docs(tutorial): Material UI option (#5672)
refinedev/refine: documentation/tutorial/next-steps/devtools/react-router/material-ui/index.md

---
title: Using Devtools
---

import { Sandpack, SelectorButtonIcon } from "./sandpack.tsx";

<Sandpack>

In this step, we'll explore Refine's powerful Devtools package, which offers monitoring and update features for inspecting and debugging Refine applications.

:::note

`@refinedev/devtools` is in the beta stage and soon to be updated with even more features and improvements.

:::

`@refinedev/devtools` package is designed to help you in development process and it will be removed from the production builds. There will be no performance impact on your application and left-over code in the production bundle of your application.

## Installation

Installation of the package is straightforward but the `@refinedev/cli` package also provides a command to install and setup the Devtools package. We'll use the below command to install the Devtools package:

<Tabs>

<TabItem value="cli" label="Using CLI" default>

```sh
npm run refine devtools init
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="manual" label="manual">

<InstallPackagesCommand args="@refinedev/devtools" />

> Then we'll need to wrap our application with the `<DevtoolsProvider />` component. The `<DevtoolsProvider />` component should be wrapped around the `<Refine />` component in the `App` component. We'll also be importing the `<DevtoolsPanel />` component to have a nice shortcut to open the Devtools in our application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then we'll need to wrap our application with the `<DevtoolsProvider />` component. ensuring it wrapped around the `<Refine />` component in the `App` component. We'll also be importing the `<DevtoolsPanel />` component to have a nice shortcut to open the Devtools in our application.
```

```tsx title="src/App.tsx"
import { Refine } from "@refinedev/core";
// highlight-next-line
import { DevtoolsProvider, DevtoolsPanel } from "@refinedev/devtools";
/* ... */

export default function App() {
    return (
        {/* highlight-start */}
        {/* You can mount the DevtoolsProvider at the top most level of the element tree */}
        <DevtoolsProvider>
        {/* highlight-end */}
            <Refine>
                {/* ... */}
            </Refine>
            {/* highlight-start */}
            {/* DevtoolsPanel component should be mounted inside the DevtoolsProvider */}
            <DevtoolsPanel />
            {/* highlight-end */}
            {/* ... */}
        {/* highlight-next-line */}
        </DevtoolsProvider>
    );
}
```

Then we can start using the Devtools in our application.

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Using the Monitoring Feature

> After you've installed and setup the Devtools package, you'll be able to see the small devtools panel on the bottom of your application. Clicking on the panel will open the devtools. Then you can click on the `"Monitor"` on the sidebar to open the monitoring screen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After installing and setting up the Devtools package, a small devtools panel will appear at the bottom of your application. Clicking on it will open the devtools, allowing you to access the monitoring screen by clicking on "Monitor" in the sidebar.
```

This screen will include all the queries and mutations triggered in your application for the current session. You can see their details such as the response, target data provider, target resource, the time it took to execute the query/mutation, and lots more.

> You'll be able to filter the queries and mutations by their type, resource, status and the component/hook that triggered them. Also, you can pick the component you want to filter on your UI by using the selector.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can filter the queries and mutations by their type, resource, status and the component/hook that triggered them. Also, you can select the component to filter on your UI by using the selector.
```
